Added Term Entry Position absolute (#5455)
Codecademy/docs: content/css/concepts/position/terms/absolute/absolute.md

---
Title: 'Absolute Positioning in CSS' 
Description: 'Places an element exactly where you want, relative to its nearest positioned ancestor or the browser window.' 
Subjects: 

>   - 'Web Design'
>   - 'Web Development'
>   - 'CSS'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
```

Tags:

>   - 'positioning'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Positioning'
```

  - 'CSS'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-css'

>   - 'paths/css'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
```

---

The **absolute** value of the position property allows an element to be positioned exactly where you want it, relative to its nearest positioned ancestor or the browser window. This method removes the element from the normal document flow, so it does not affect the layout of surrounding elements.

## Syntax
```css
position: absolute;
```

> When an element is set to `position: absolute`, you can use the `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left` properties to offset it from its normal position:

Reviewer: Also, mention this after the Syntax header

```css
selector {
  position: absolute;
  top: <length>;
  right: <length>;
  bottom: <length>;
  left: <length>;

> }

Reviewer: add this in the CSS block after the syntax

```

- `<length>`: Can be specified in pixels (px), ems (em), rems (rem), percentages (%), or other CSS units.
- Positive values move the element away from the specified edge.

> - Negative values move the element towards the specified edge.

Reviewer: Mention these as a note

> ## Example 1 : Positioned Relative to its Parent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example 1

This example shows how absolute positioning works when the element is positioned relative to its parent container. By setting top: 0 and left: 0, the .box sticks to the top-left corner of its parent. You can adjust top, left, right, or bottom to move it anywhere within the parent.

```html
<div class="container">

>     <div class="box"></div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <div class="box">Absolutely Positioned</div>
```

</div>
```

```css
    .container {
      position: relative; /* Important: This makes .box position relative to .container */

      /* Optional styles for the example */
      width: 500px;
      height: 300px;
      background-color: #e9ecef;
      border-radius: 8px;
      border: 1px solid #dee2e6; 
      margin: 100px auto;
      box-shadow: 0 4px 12px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1); 
    }

    .box {
      position: absolute;
      top: 0px;
      left: 0px;

      /* Optional styles for the example */
      width: 200px;
      height: 120px;
      background-color: #495057;
      color: #f8f9fa;
      display: flex;
      justify-content: center;
      align-items: center;
      font-size: 18px;
      border-radius: 4px;
      box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2); 
    }
```

> Here's what the above examples look like:

Reviewer: Give a blank line after the code block

![Box at top-left of parent](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/css-position-absolute-ex1.png)

> 

Reviewer: Give 1 blank line after the image

> ## Example 2: Positioned Relative to the Browser Window

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example 2
```

> 

Reviewer: Give 1 blank line after the heading

> If the parent container doesn’t have position: relative (or any positioning), the element with position: absolute will stick to the browser window. This example demonstrates how the .box is now positioned relative to the window instead of its parent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the below example the parent container doesn’t have `position: relative` (or any positioning),  so the element with `position: absolute` will stick to the browser window.
```

```html
<div class="container">

>     <div class="box"></div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <div class="box">Absolutely Positioned</div>
```

</div>
```

```css
    .container {
      /* position: relative; */

      /* Optional styles for the example */
      width: 500px;
      height: 300px;
      background-color: #e9ecef;
      border-radius: 8px;
      border: 1px solid #dee2e6; 
      margin: 100px auto;
      box-shadow: 0 4px 12px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1); 
    }

    .box {
      position: absolute;
      top: 0px;
      left: 0px;
      
      /* Optional styles for the example */
      width: 200px;
      height: 120px;
      background-color: #495057;
      color: #f8f9fa;
      display: flex;
      justify-content: center;
      align-items: center;
      font-size: 18px;
      border-radius: 4px;
      box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2); 
    }
```

> Here's what the above examples look like:

Reviewer: Give a blank line
